[THEME MUSIC PLAYING]
>>DAVID WILCOCK: All right,
it's me, David Wilcock,
and here we are in "Disclosure."
This is the show that is
breaking the boundaries down
and revealing to you the
truth of the knowledge that
has been suppressed from us.
This is our final
interview, part two
of the groundbreaking
pioneer Robert Bauval
giving us very, very enigmatic,
fascinating information
about the Orion
correlation theory,
the idea that the Sphinx,
the pyramids of Egypt,
and in fact the Nile River
are all precise duplicates
on the ground of the Milky
Way and the belt stars
and actually some of the other
stars in the constellation
of Orion up in the sky.
There's a variety of very robust
evidence that supports this,
and we go through a lot of that
in this particular episode.
Now, Robert Bauval
has dug up some things
that the powers that
were, pun unintended,
really don't want him to know.
So in this particular
episode, I go
through some of the most
vociferous attacks that
have been made against him
to try to tear him down.
But this man keeps on fighting.
So one level of the attack is
that they did a show with him
on BBC, and the show actually
set him up and then attacked
him and never allowed
him to have a response.
And he actually went
to court, and he won.
And the BBC was forced to print
an apology in the newspaper.
You're going to hear that story.
And I talk about how even
though he won the case,
on Wikipedia they
actually still talk
as if the negative side
was true and that he's
been widely discredited.
Well, this is nonsense.
Then the other big thing
that he's gotten rolled up in
is that two German
explorers actually
scratched some of
these red quarry
marks off from the relieving
chambers over the King's
Chamber in the pyramid.
And they carbon dated
that red ochre paint,
and six Egyptians are now in
prison as a result of this.
The Germans are in
trouble, and they've
tried to blame this
on Robert Bauval
even though Bauval had
nothing to do with it.
But coming from this story is
something very interesting,
because the Germans saw these
black marks on the granite
stones inside the
Relieving Chambers that
suggested that it had been
burned in with a technology
that the Egyptians
could not have had.
So it's very tantalizing
because Bauval tells us
that they got some very
interesting results
from the carbon dating
tests, but he won't tell us
exactly what they said.
I'll talk to you at
the end about what
I think this is all going
towards, but check it out.
It's very, very
fascinating information,
the haters closing in on Bauval
and him fighting back here
on "Disclosure."
Enjoy.
So we have been discussing
some very new interpretations
of the Egyptian pyramids
that you, essentially,
are single-handedly
responsible for bringing
to the public attention--
the Orion correlation
theory-- the idea that the
two large pyramids and then
the smaller one in
Menkaure, actually, the
offset pyramid
corresponds to the offset
of the smaller of the three
stars in Orion's Belt.
And this has sort of entered
into the public lexicon now.
A lot of people who
read about this stuff
now know this as a fact.
They consider it to be a fact.
And yet I looked on
Wikipedia, and there's
an entry on Wikipedia called
Orion correlation theory.
And they say that your
theory is widely discredited.
And they say that scientists--
and they named the scientists,
I don't remember their
names off the top
of my head-- had
said that you flipped
around the image of the sky.
And that you covered it
up, and you lied about it.
And you didn't tell anybody.
>>ROBERT BAUVAL:
Let me tell you.
When the book came
out, it came out
with a BBC program, a
very popular program,
called "Everyman."
It's like your "Primetime Live"
and these kind of programs
you have here, and a very,
very highly respected program
in England.
And it was a show of the week.
I was very lucky
that the BBC decided
to do the program-- and the
TV magazine's front cover.
So it really was
splashed in a big way,
and it came from nowhere.
I mean, all the academics,
the Egyptologists,
the archaelogists, just had no
idea this thing was coming out.
And suddenly, there it is, on
a Saturday night at 9 o'clock
on a major TV show-- bang--
showing this correlation,
with Professor
Edwards commenting.
And it just took
everybody by surprise.
And it was incredible
because I was accused
of just about everything.
I'm used to it, now.
But there was a very violent
reaction from Egyptologists,
very violent.
Particularly Zahi Hawass,
I was ranging from mad man
to Zionist to you name it.
I've heard it all.
But the real debunking, or
the attempt to debunk it,
came in '99, because the BBC had
been put under such pressure.
There was anger against them.
How can you allow
this amateur to,
you know-- on a prime show
and a scientific program.
So at the end,
they decided to do
a program which was
going to kind of look
at the other side
of the argument.
They interviewed myself.
By that time, I was working
with Graham Hancock.
And they called it
"Atlantis Reborn."
And the idea was
that they were going
to bring people who
were well-known critics
of my theories and
Hancock's theories.
And unknown to us, although the
program was a British program,
they contacted some
scientists here in the States.
Now, they deny that they
knew the scientists were part
of a debunking organization.
At the time it was called Psi
Corp. I don't know if you are--
>>DAVID: Oh, yeah, of course.
>>BAUVAL: You know,
it was kind of
like a Spanish Inquisition
of the scientific world.
And they had me
on their hit list.
They were going to get me.
And one of the
scientists that they
had was a fella called Ed
Krupp, who was, and still is I
think, the director of
the Griffith Planetarium
in Los Angeles.
>>DAVID: Griffith Park, yeah.
>>BAUVAL: And he
had written already
a couple of articles arguing
against it, with very, very
derogatory titles, like "Pyramid
Marketing" and that sort
of stuff.
In a magazine, I think it was
called-- an astronomy magazine,
"Astronomy Now" or one of these
magazines-- another fellow--
I also forget his name--
who was an anthropologist,
he was going to sort of
debunk Graham Hancock.
And they both belong to
the Psi Corp organization.
Totally out of
the blue-- I mean,
I had no idea it was coming
my way-- the BBC asked
me to be interviewed at Giza.
They actually paid
for my flight.
I went there.
And they said that somebody--
one of the scientists,
we can't tell you
who-- was saying
that you put maps upside down.
So I knew who it was, of
course, as I mentioned before.
So they said, well,
what do you say to this,
what you're asking me now?
So I said, well,
let me give you my,
uh-- I mean, what he
was saying was this.
And I gave the analogy.
I think I will give
the analogy first,
and you'll see what
he was getting at.
If you see a hot
air balloon flying
in the sky with a basket,
a little standard hot air
balloon.
And you look at it.
How would you draw it?
Well, everybody
would say, well, I
would draw the balloon
and the basket underneath.
That's how you would do it.
And if it was flying south,
well, you look at the south sky
and draw the balloon
with a basket under it.
Well, according to Ed Krupp, no.
You should be drawing
the basket at the top.
Now, the big question is why.
Well, his reasoning was-- and
it's not wrong in a sense.
I mean, it was inspiring in a
way, very clever, he thought.
His reason was this.
The basket's pointing down.
If you're looking
at the southern sky,
it's pointing to the
southern horizon.
Whereas the top of the
balloon, if it's pointing
upwards and over your
head, it's pointing north.
So when you draw this
on a sheet of paper,
the top of the balloon
will be pointing south.
You drew it upside down.
There you are.
That was his conclusion.
And then what he said about
the pyramids-- he said,
well, here is a picture of
Orion's Belt looking south.
The top star is pointing
north, so over your head.
Whereas the pyramids
on the ground,
the small pyramid
is pointing south.
This theory had been running
for about three years already.
No astronomer had
raised this question.
To them it was a
visual representation,
which everybody would do.
As a matter of fact,
if the pyramids
were pointing in
the wrong, I would
have had the criticism
saying, no, they're wrong.
Anyway, that's what he said.
But the way it
was said was this.
Here is a map of the pyramids.
This pyramid, the top
one, points south.
And here is a picture
of the three stars,
and this points north.
The maps are upside down.
You can't believe
the effect this had.
I mean, I was watching the show,
and I had given them my reply.
And they didn't use my reply.
I don't know about here, but
the BBC is under a charter
that they have to give
balanced argument.
If somebody is going to
attack you that's hard,
they're obliged to
give the counter view.
But they didn't use it.
So of course my lawyer called
me up and said, Jesus Christ.
There's a guy who went on
television saying you put maps
upside down.
I mean, this is going
to ruin you, Robert.
I said, no, and I explained
to him this balloon stuff.
So he said, no, no, no.
We've got to take them to
the Broadcasting Standards
Commission, which is
the government watchdog
if the BBC breaks its charter.
And we did.
And for the first time,
the BBC "Horizon" program--
this "Horizon" program
is the most prestigious
scientific program
in England, probably
in the world-- lost the case.
>>DAVID: They lost the case?
>>BAUVAL: Oh, yes, they lost
the case-- apart from the fact
that many, many astronomers
who had seen the program
and were friends of mine
called me up and said,
who is this mad man?
So of course we'll
back you up, Robert.
They wrote letters
to BBC saying,
this is taking us for idiots.
>>DAVID: Well, it's still
written in Wikipedia
as if he won the argument
and that you're an idiot.
It's unbelievable.
>>BAUVAL: Leave Wikipedia be.
>>DAVID: Oh, yeah, I know.
I mean, Wikipedia, we had
another guest here saying--
>>BAUVAL: No, it
would look a bit now
for me to go there
and correct it.
I mean, fine.
He said it, and it stays there.
But no, no, it was--
>>DAVID: But you won the
case against the BBC.
>>BAUVAL: Absolutely, well,
apart from the argument
that there was letters
from top astronomers.
One of them was the late
Professor Archie Roy,
who was a very
serious astronomer
at Glasgow University,
who was not only furious.
He was a backer of the
Orion correlation theory.
To him, there was no problem.
It was very clear.
The evidence was
very supportive.
He had no bias like
the Egyptologists.
Many astronomers were supporting
it, but he was furious.
What he couldn't
understand is why here we
have astronomers
galore in England
who would have commented.
Why didn't they ask me?
And I said, well,
I did tell them.
I gave you name, and they
didn't bother to contact him.
They wanted to debunk it.
It was very obvious.
Of course, BBC
denied that they were
linked to Psi Corp. Once this
was exposed at the Broadcasting
Standards Commission,
they were furious.
The judge there was furious.
How?
Well, you've got
debunkers on BBC.
But here's the big one.
The question was asked,
through with the BBC, when
the name of Dr. Archie
Roy, who would have given
a balanced argument,
a counterargument,
was given to you, why
did you not contact him?
And they made a
terrible mistake.
And they said, well, Dr. Archie
Roy's astronomy is outdated.
At that point, the judge--
I'll never forget this moment.
He said, that's it.
Anyway, what they had to do
was to make a public apology
in The Times.
I had to choose the
paper on my own.
I chose The Times of
London, of course.
The quarter-page apology and
to rebroadcast the program
with the counter view.
To me, that was it.
Of course, it was picked up by
all the media-- the first time
that Horizon lost
a program review.
So yeah, I've been
through all these things.
I don't bother anymore.
The correlation is a
very, very compelling one.
I mean, it's publicly accepted.
And I know that many
Egyptologists reluctantly
would discuss and support
it, and I know many of them
do support it.
It's one of those
things that I've
presented a case
where the evidence is
compelling to say the least.
You've got shafts
within the pyramids
pointing to Orion's Belt.
You've got the
pyramid texts, saying
the king wants to go to
Orion to join the god
Osiris in this massive kingdom.
You've got the
astronomical invitation
to look at astronomy.
And on top of that,
pyramids were given names.
Pyramids were actually named
by the ancient Egyptians.
They were given names, and
they personified the pharaoh.
So we have pyramids
of the fourth dynasty
that were called stars.
The pyramid of Djedefre
who is actually
called-- Djedefre is a star.
That is a star.
The evidence is compelling
that this correlation is
unlikely to be a coincidence.
It's been checked by
professional statisticians
in Italy and England.
I don't have the smoking
gun with a certificate
from King Cheops with
two witnesses saying,
that's what we want to do.
But the evidence is
extremely compelling,
and the public has absorbed it.
>>DAVID: Well, I think the
archaeologists' concern is
that you're trying to tell
the world that there was
a civilization capable of doing
advanced astronomy and advanced
construction 12,500 years ago.
And people think that back
then all we were doing
was burning dried
manure and cooking--
>>BAUVAL: Let me say this.
It's not advanced astronomy
to look at the stars.
I mean, anybody can
look at the stars.
And you will see that
there's two stars in a row
and the third one offset.
I mean, it's visible
to the naked eye.
It doesn't take
advanced astronomy
to draw this map on the ground.
What we have on the ground
is advanced technology,
if you like.
We have pyramids set at very,
very accurate alignments, built
in a manner that we
still can't understand.
And we know that the
ancient Egyptians were
very keen observers of the sky.
We can call them
astronomers today.
They were doing this
for religious reasons,
but we know for example that
the priesthoods or the pyramid
cults were astronomers,
if you like.
They observed the sky.
They had calendars.
So there's nothing
surprising about this.
It dovetails.
I call it the Cinderella
shoe of Egyptology.
It dovetails very neatly,
and what they-- the
stars that they had
in Egypt in the sky.
They had a night in the sky.
They give star names
to the pyramids.
There are shafts pointing.
It all fits.
The thing that doesn't fit is
the consensus of Egyptologists.
Let's put it this way.
If the Orion correlation
is accepted by them,
then there is an admittance.
The weird thing about
this Orion correlation
is that once you point
it out, it's obvious.
People see it, and
it's the three stars,
three pyramids, the shafts.
I mean, it's obvious, and
yet they didn't pick it up.
They didn't pick it up.
And it makes Egytpology look,
like, really weird here.
It becomes so obvious
when you see it.
It's one of those things.
It's very fast to understand.
>>DAVID: Well, let's talk for
a minute about Colonel Howard
Vyse's quarry marks
because the only real proof
right now that the
Egyptologists would
have about what they consider
to be a chronological dating is
that Colonel Howard Vyse was
running out of money and on,
like, the last day of his
excavation of the pyramid.
And he's in there by himself.
It's been proven he went
in the night before.
He finds, in these
Relieving Chambers
over the King's Chamber,
these red quarry marks.
But the angle that
they were written at
is the angle that
his arm would have
been at if he was in there.
And he made the same mistakes
as were in Wallis Budge's
book for the time.
>>BAUVAL: Yeah,
I know the whole.
>>DAVID: OK, what do
you feel about that?
>>BAUVAL: Look, I'll
be honest with you.
I would love them
to be forgeries.
It would fit many
things that I believe.
But I'll be frank with you.
The evidence is very
much against this.
But let me tell you
the background for this
because there's been a huge
controversy, as you may or may
not know, over the last year.
Well, here is another one.
I mean, the Orion correlation--
pyramids were observed,
studied, they had maps.
In 1964, an astronomer
with an Egyptologist,
Virginia Trimble, a very well
known astronomer in America,
with Alexander Badawy, one of
the top Egyptian astronomers,
wrote a thesis showing
that the shafts pointed--
all this was known.
Amazingly, it escaped attention.
Grant Bey, the shafts
were discovered in 1872.
It took until 1993 for an
outsider to say, hey, come on.
Let's send a machine up there.
So the complacency of
Egyptologists is incredible.
I mean, I don't get it.
The same thing with
this cartouche.
The same thing
with this graffiti.
The graffiti was
discovered in 1837.
Well, OK, in 1837, we didn't
have the technology to date it.
But since the last 30 years
or so, we know carbon dating.
All you had to do was
take a little sample
and try and test it.
Now, it's true that
red-- because they
are dobbed in red ochre paint.
This graffiti is
actually ferrous oxide.
You cannot carbon
date ferrous oxide.
You need an organic material.
But it's been
suggested many times
that this red ochre
paint was probably stuck
on the wall with organic resin.
That can be carbon dated.
Now, the proof is in the
pudding, as they say.
We can have theories that it
is fake, forged, whatever.
But the only way to know
this is to carbon date it.
Now, since the last 30
years, no Egyptologist
had suggested this.
And many people were talking
about, why not carbon date it?
In fact, the
Education Foundation
was suggesting this in 1984,
saying, let's carbon date it.
What's the problem?
However, the story
with Vyse is this.
Let's explain for your
viewers what this is really.
We're talking
about chambers that
are above the King's Chamber,
known as the Relief Chambers.
In fact, they don't
relieve the chamber.
Structural engineers
just laugh at this.
They actually cause a problem.
There are five low chambers
above the King's Chamber.
The ceilings of these chambers,
and the floors, of course,
are made of granite
beams that weigh 70 tons.
And each chamber has
about eight of these.
The collective weight of
this so-called Relief Chamber
is about 2,500 tons.
The last thing you
want to do is put that
on the walls of the chamber.
They don't do relieve.
They actually cause a problem.
They must have another function.
We don't know what
this function is.
But the weird thing
is having bothered
to built these chambers with
such a difficult construction
because the blocks of granite
are not found locally.
They are brought from Aswan,
which is 1,000 kilometers away.
And they're pretty giant
blocks, let me tell you.
They're about seven
meters long, some of them
about two meters deep.
When Howard Vyse
explored the pyramid,
the first of these
Relief Chambers
had been known since 1760.
When it was open, we don't know.
But it was certainly
visited by a British man
called Nathaniel Davison.
We know that because his name
was written on the chamber.
He wrote his name with the date.
So Howard Vyse knew
there was this chamber.
To get to it, by
the way, you have
to climb at the top of
the Grand Gallery, which
butts at the entrance
of King's Chamber.
And there's this little tunnel.
It's pretty hairy stuff.
I've never done it, by the way,
but it's pretty hairy stuff.
You need a several-meter
ladder, and you crawl
into this very narrow tunnel.
And you emerge, crouching,
into this Davison Chamber.
Let me tell you, in
Howard Vyce's day--
even today, I've
seen films of it.
I know people who went there.
Robert Schoch went
several times,
and the Germans, which
I'll tell you in a minute.
It's pretty hairy
stuff because you're
in a very alien environment.
You're crouching.
It's dark.
And even with torches,
it's very confusing.
So I can imagine Howard Vyse
going there with oil lamps.
It's a mess.
It's not as easy
as people think.
You go there with a bucket of
paint, and you start painting.
Howard, what he
did, as you know,
he used gunpowder to
blast through the ceilings
of the various chambers
and finally reached
the top chamber.
Now, there is graffitti
in four of the chambers.
The Davison chamber
does not have graffitti,
but there's graffiti
in the others.
And the last one-- Howard
Vyse gave them British names.
There is Wellington's Chamber
and Davison's Chamber.
And the last one is
called Campbell's Chamber.
So we're talking about
Campbell's Chamber,
with the gable roof.
And in there is this
famous cartouche.
A cartouche, as you know,
is an oval-shaped design
in which there are
hieroglyphs that
write the name of the king.
And this cartouche
had the name Khufu,
and that was the smoking gun as
far as Egyptology was concerned
because the pyramid is
totally bare of inscriptions
outside and inside,
except this graffitti.
So there you are.
The signature of the
pharaoh, deep inside, sealed.
To them, that's it.
It's the Holy Grail
of Egyptology.
And they rested on this,
until of course Zecharia
Sitchin in the 1980 said,
what if Howard Vyse forged it?
And of course it's spawned all
these theories and so forth.
I must admit that
I'm not 100% sure.
I'm not 100% sure,
but the evidence
is very much tilting towards
them being authentic.
But again, what I think
and what I don't think
will only be proved if
you can carbon date.
And this brings in
our two Germans.
A bit rash they took
it upon themselves.
Now, look.
I do not approve
of anybody going
in the pyramids or anywhere
else or in a museum
and taking samples
without permission.
But let's put this
in perspective.
What's being taken
is a few milligrams.
Really, a few milligrams--
I mean, you blow on it,
and you won't see it.
So it's not what
it's been accused
of-- vandals who damaged
the pyramid and all this.
And here's the story.
They went with a private permit.
They had a permit to
enter the pyramid,
and they were supervised
by six Egyptians.
They even asked for a ladder.
So it's bizarre that
all this was allowed.
It wasn't the first time
that people were allowed
to go in the Relief Chambers.
In Zahi Hawass' time, it
was quite common for those
who had a private permit.
Now, it may sound weird to
us in the Western world,
that you can rent the pyramid.
But the Egyptian authorities
do rent the pyramid.
So if you have
$1,000 to spare, you
can rent the pyramid
for two hours, alone
or with a bunch of
friends-- the same price.
So for $1,000, you can be alone
or have 20 people with you,
same price, $1,000.
So you divide $1,000
by 20, not bad.
For $50 each, you can have
the pyramid for two hours.
I've been opposing
this for a long time
because sooner or later,
there's going to be a problem.
Because you never know
who is going in there,
and it's very tempting
for people to try and take
souvenirs and scratch a bit
of the wall if they can.
And this was common practice.
With private permits,
the inspectors
allowed people to go in areas
that they weren't, strictly
speaking, to go to, like
the subterranean chamber.
You can't do damage
to this monument,
I mean this 6-million-ton
massive monument.
You'd have to go in there
with a bomb to do some damage.
So of course,
nobody was worried.
Nonetheless, here
is what happened.
And by the way, their
intention was not
only to take some red ochre
paint from the graffiti.
Their intention, primarily,
was to take samples
from the ceiling of
the King's Chamber,
from these granite beams.
A lot of people don't know this.
And the reason they
wanted to do this was they
had noticed, like we had
noticed for many years,
but we thought it was soot.
Those beams that rest on
the wall, right at the edge,
have very dark marks.
It's very visible.
But everybody assumed
they were soot
from the torches
or ancient people
visiting in maybe the
days of Howard Vyse.
What they noticed, with
high-definition photography,
was that whatever it is was
encrusted in the granite.
Now, granite is a
very hard stone.
So to encrust
something in it, it
must be at very high pressure,
to push something into stone.
And obviously,
having realized this,
they were keen to test it
and see what was there.
And so they first
went up the ladder
and took 14 samples
from the various beams--
I think two milligrams or three
milligrams from each edge.
You can't even
see it from below.
They put the stuff
in plastic boxes,
went out of the King's
Chamber, took the ladder,
attached another ladder because
they had to go much higher,
and two of them-- one of them
called Dominique Goerlitz, who
I have become a very
good friend of Goerlitz
because of this affair-- went
up the ladder with a cameraman.
There was a third German
called Stephan Erdmann who
had been many times up there.
But he panicked apparently
and didn't want to go.
So they went up there.
It was the first time
they went up there.
They had torches.
The dropped the torch.
It was a mess.
They finally got
to Campbell's room,
and they took a
bit of graffitti,
about two milligrams,
from a hieroglyph
but not from the cartouche--
not from the cartouche.
This has been proven.
Now, whether the intention
was taking from the cartouche,
I'm not so sure.
But why did they make a mistake?
But they took from somewhere
near the cartouche.
Now, the mistake is
easily made, by the way,
because once you're
in that chamber,
you scramble through
all the others.
There's dust all over the place.
Your eyes are totally blurred.
It's really a mess, I'm told.
I mean, Robert Schoch
described it to me in detail.
And people have been there
to specifically go and take
pictures of the cartouche
and ended up not finding it.
Unless you know precisely
where it is, you can miss it.
It's one of those things.
It's very dark and very faint.
Whether they made a mistake
or not is another matter.
But they took samples from
somewhere near the cartouche,
from the graffitti.
They took pictures
of it, and they
were filming the whole thing.
The whole idea is they were
going to do a documentary.
They went out, took
the samples to Dresden.
Dominique Goerlitz is an
experimental archaeologist.
He knew exactly what to do.
By the way, for the
interest of your viewers,
Dominique Goerlitz is the
successor of Thor Heyerdahl--
Thor Heyerdahl, the Kon-Tiki.
His main interest, actually,
is ancient navigation.
He's actually just
built an Egyptian barge,
and he's proposing to sail
it across the Atlantic.
So if you're interested, you
might want to talk to him.
He's a really cool
guy, actually.
Anyway, they threw the
samples to Dresden University,
and there's a laboratory there.
And the idea was to carbon date
and to test this black thing
that they picked up.
Now, I'm sure you're going
to ask me what's the result.
And from what they told
me-- and I'm very good.
How I got into this
affair is very bizarre.
Because what they did,
having filmed all this,
they did a trailer.
And they put the trailer
on YouTube in November,
several months later.
And of course, hell broke lose.
The Egyptian authorities
went bananas.
Zahi Hawass, of all
things, he was now
fired from-- having been my
bitter enemy for so many years,
having accused me of
being a Zionist and a Jew
and you name it-- all
these nasty things
that Arabs think is bad.
Put on the front page of
one of the Arab newspapers,
Robert Bauval paid the
Germans to steal the cartouche
to prove the pyramids
were built by the Jews.
>>DAVID: Oh, my God.
>>BAUVAL: Excuse my
French, bugger this.
So I said, well, let
me find those Germans.
I was in Italy at the
time, giving conferences.
I finally found
Dominique Goerlitz.
I had no idea who they were.
He was in New York.
And I said, hey, did you
steal this cartouche?
And why are they accusing me?
He said, I don't know, but we
didn't steal the cartouche.
The cartouche was not stolen.
It's there.
And in any case,
we didn't touch it.
OK, well send me pictures
and all this stuff.
They sent me a picture
of where they took it.
But I still was skeptical
because it took seven days
after Hawass' accusation
for the Egyptian authorities
to send inspectors.
And lo and behold, the
cartouche was there.
But they did notice that
there were some scratches
on the cartouche.
So there, again, they said, OK.
The cartouche is not stolen, but
they did take samples from it.
And it's very clear.
You can see four clear marks
that have been scraped off.
So I found the Germans again.
I said, listen.
You've told me a lot of rubbish.
OK, you didn't steal it,
but you've taken samples.
And they kept saying,
no, we didn't.
They sounded very genuine.
Then I remembered
that Robert Schoch
had been there several times.
So I phoned him up.
He said, yes, I
was there in 2003.
And I was there in 2006.
As you know, Robert Schoch
is at Boston University.
I happened to be in
Vermont at the time,
on a trip to my publisher.
I said, send me pictures.
Let's see.
And he did.
And, wow, in 2003, the
cartouche is untouched.
Nobody touched it.
But in the picture from
2006, those scratches
are there, as they
were seen in 2013.
So it was clear the Germans
were telling the truth.
Most annoyingly, that in 2003 to
2006 when this damage occurred,
we can't tell precisely when,
Zahi Hawass was responsible.
So the whole story flung
back to him, saying,
you were responsible.
And it's still going on.
We had six Egyptians with us.
The six Egyptians that
were with the Germans
were in jail for the
last eight months.
I had been in Egypt trying
to get them out of jail
because they're innocent.
All they did wrong, that
was common practice,
was to allow the Germans
to climb a ladder.
They didn't know
that the Germans
were going to take samples.
The Germans were very
chivalrous to write
an affidavit, sent to the
Egyptian authorities saying,
it's true.
The Egyptian people who
were with us did not know.
They let us climb the
ladder to take photographs,
but we took the samples.
They weren't aware of it.
Signed, sealed, and yet they
put these poor people in jail.
I've been following this case
for the last eight months.
>>DAVID: Was there any
conclusive carbon dating?
>>BAUVAL: Yeah, you were
going to ask me that.
I'll tell you what
I was told by them.
And I can't tell
you certain things,
and it's not because I
don't want you to know.
It's because the Germans
had made an agreement
with the Egyptian authorities.
Although they had
been criminalized,
they agreed that they would
not publish the results.
And they will give
priority to Egyptians
to publish the results.
Now, I can tell
you this, though.
They didn't manage to
carbon date the red ochre.
There wasn't enough material
to produce a conclusive test.
They did find something
very strange in red paint.
They found that it
contained aluminum.
Now, aluminum is
not supposed to have
existed in the pyramid times.
But aluminum existed in paint
at the time of Howard Vyse.
That might indicate that the
paint was a modern paint.
On the other hand,
here is the problem.
They used a spatula to
remove it, which has also
aluminum on the handle.
So in order to be
100% sure, they
have to take another
sample, which at the moment,
nobody will allow them.
So that's the position
with red ochre, right?
As one, proves nothing.
With the black soot,
it's very interesting.
And they allowed
me to go that far.
They say-- I know what it
is, OK, but I can't tell you.
Honestly, and I'm not
playing games here.
It's a very serious matter.
There's legal cases going on.
But I can tell
you that what they
found there in this black soot
will certainly strongly suggest
that the way the
pyramid was built
and the way that
the stones were cut
required a technology that, as
far as Egyptologists would say,
was not available at the time.
There you are.
That's all I can say.
>>DAVID: Well, and this gets
into Christopher Dunn, also,
that kind of stuff--
looking at the sarcophagus
and seeing drill
marks that would
go five times faster than
a diamond-tipped drill.
>>BAUVAL: Correct, and
I'm sure Chris Dunn would
guess what they found.
But I can't take it further.
So it's a very exciting time.
>>DAVID: Well, and
you also had told me
that there's been
red ochre marks found
in one of the chambers
up there in the shaft.
>>BAUVAL: Which
indicates, by the way,
that it was not uncommon for
red ochre paint to be used.
We know they've used it
in many other places,
but the funny thing is that this
red ochre paint in the pyramid
is only found in places
that are deliberately sealed
and inaccessible.
Had Howard Vyse not
blown his gunpowder,
we wouldn't have known.
>>DAVID: You said that
it was the number 121
was written inside the chamber.
That's fascinating.
I hadn't heard that before.
>>BAUVAL: Very eerie
because, as you know,
the pyramid is designed
using prime numbers.
And the prime number that comes
more commonly in the design
is 11.
And surprisingly,
the number that
is behind the Gantenbrink door,
which has been filmed in 2010,
is 11 times 11, 121.
So we've got a code there.
There's no doubt.
>>DAVID: Well, could you tell my
audience how they can find out
more about your work.
Are you working on
any books right now?
Are you about to
release any book?
>>BAUVAL: Well, all
I've told you now
is written in great
detail with pictures
about the cartouche affair,
about the Gantenbrink door,
about the Education Foundation
in the book that I just
released.
It's called "Secret
Chamber Revisited,"
published by Inner Tradition
and available in all good stores
and on Amazon.
There you are.
>>DAVID: Well, it's been a
real honor to have you here.
It's totally fascinating.
And any time you got the truth,
people want to fight you,
don't they?
>>BAUVAL: Oh, well,
yeah-- but you
know one thing about the truth.
The truth is not democratic.
It's the only thing
that is not democratic.
You don't vote on truth.
If it's true, it's true.
And we know this from history.
If one person is
true, it doesn't
matter if a million
people say he's wrong.
If he's right, he's right.
And we've got a case here.
We've got a case of a few people
who have touched the truth.
And there's been an uproar.
The people don't
agree, but too bad.
Too bad, because the
truth will prevail.
I'm very, very sure that
in a few years' time,
we'll be talking
about correlations.
It will be common
knowledge in textbooks.
And hopefully, we'll be talking
about how the pyramid was
designed, prime numbers, all
these things that has been
opposed by the establishment.
>>DAVID: Excellent.
Well, thank you, Robert.
>>BAUVAL: It's a pleasure.
>>DAVID: Thank you
for being here.
I love that line.
The truth is not democratic.
We don't vote on the truth.
It's not something that
everybody has to agree on.
Once it's the truth,
it's the truth.
And it will prevail even
if it is widely opposed.
The facts ultimately win out.
And the facts
clearly argue, as he
said if you listen
very carefully,
those black marks that were
found in the Relieving Chambers
over the King's Chamber
in the Great Pyramid
demonstrate a technology that
the Egyptians did not have.
I actually don't know what the
results of those carbon dating
tests will be.
There's a few
things that he says
in there that suggest that it
may date the pyramid closer
to where conventional
archaeology thinks
that it would happen.
But bear in mind that
there could very well
have been extraterrestrials
visiting Egypt during the time
that conventional
archaeologists attribute
to being Egyptian
civilization and that they
had the technology to help
build these monuments.
Or it's possible that in
fact the carbon dating
goes much, much
older, and they are
worried about getting killed.
They're worried about the
potential ramifications
to the archaeological community,
considering that this thing has
become a big lawsuit.
And it's all getting
ready to pop.
So there's a lot more in store.
And believe me,
as soon as we know
what those carbon
dating tests reveal,
I'm going to be all over it on
this show and on my other show.
So we will keep you informed
as to these fast-processing
developments.
Coming up next time,
we're going to have
part two of my incredible
interview with Andrew Collins.
And what is so
exciting about this
is that I pin him
in the corner, and I
get him to talk about
the Illuminati directly.
Because remember, the core of
what the insiders have told
me is that the people who
have now essentially taken
control of our financial
system, they're
the shadow government that's
running various militaries
in various governments
around the world.
They've been
controlling the media
through all different
forms, whether it is movies,
whether it's television, print
journalism, radio journalism
to a lot of extent.
They're out there, and
more and more people
are becoming aware of this.
They're advertising
themselves more and more.
And it appears that
they consider themselves
to be the descendants of an
invading extraterrestrial human
race.
So there's a lot of
interesting things
to explore next time, when
I'm talking to Andrew Collins
here on "Disclosure."
And as always, I thank
you for watching.
[THEME MUSIC PLAYING]